Influence of demographic characteristics on COVID-19 kinetics
================
Mette Christensen, Signe Modvig Stausbøll, Hans Jakob Hartling, Mette
Christoffersen

## Description

This is a project on the influence of demographic characteristics on
COVID-19 kinetics, which was performed as a part of “R for Bio Data
Science” at DTU in the spring of 2020. The project includes an
exploratory data analyses, survival analysis, PCA clustering, and a
Shiny app developed on the data.

## Data

The data for this project includes COVID-19 data from Johns Hopkins
University
(<https://github.com/CSSEGISandData/COVID-19/tree/master/csse_covid_19_data>)
combined with publicly available data on population demographics, public
health measures, health system capacity, COVID-19 tests, and
cause-specific mortality for countries around the world. These
additional data has been retrieved from the World Health Organization
(<https://www.who.int/data/gho>), United Nations (<http://data.un.org/>)
and Our World in Data (<https://ourworldindata.org/>). Data has been
updated with follow-up until May 4th 2020.

Original data is available in this repository in /data/\_raw

## List of variables

**number\_of\_confirmed\_covid-19**: Number of confirmed COVID-19 cases.

**number\_of\_covid-19\_related\_deaths**: Number of confirmed COVID-19
related deaths.

**recovered\_from\_covid-19\_no.**: Number of recovered cases of
COVID-19.

**adult\_mortality\_rate**: The probability of dying between the ages of
15 and 60 years (per 1 000 population) per year among a hypothetical
cohort of 100 000 people that would experience the age-specific
mortality rate of the reporting year.

**concentration\_fine\_particles**: The mean annual concentration of
fine suspended particles of less than 2.5 microns in diameters is a
common measure of air pollution. The mean is a population-weighted
average for urban population in a country.

**bmi\_above30\_prevalence\_all**: Percentage of defined population with
a body mass index (BMI) of 30 kg/m2 or higher.

**proportion\_basic\_handwashing\_facilities**: The percentage of
population living in households that have a handwashing facility with
soap and water at home.

**current\_health\_expenditure\_per\_person\_usd**: Level of general
government expenditure on health (GGHE) expressed as a percentage of
total government expenditure.

**density\_of\_hospitals**: Number of hospitals, including the following
hospital categories: rural and district, provincial (second level
referral), regional/specialized/teaching and research hospitals
(tertiary care), from the public and private sectors, per 100,000
population.

**density\_of\_medical\_doctors**: Medical doctors per 10000
inhabitants.

**density\_of\_nurses\_midwifes**: Nurses and midwifes per 10000
inhabitants.
